- Slava Ukraini!
- 👋 Hi, I’m @dcndn4.. This profile was prompted one of the many books purchased for the boot camp: 'GitHub for Dummies' from Wiley, by Sarah Guthals, PhD and Phil Haack, former Eng Leaders at GitHub.
- I have been active in Accounting for a long time, originally in small companies and more recently in nonprofits, in the Minneapolis area. I have especially enjoyed optimal implementations of batch-based accounting software such as MIP, as a complex system (in the form of a database) that captures all activities of an entity in a way that supports necessary functions and reporting for managerial decision-making. 
-  From September 2021 to March 2022 I was participating in the UMN FinTech Boot Camp (part-time structure). It focused on Python and its related technologies (pandas, numpy, etc..), first in relation to tech used in finance such as API's, SQL and AWS. Then it was Python as utilized within financial visualization work and machine learning. The final section - on cryptocurrency and blockchain, solidity, etc - somewhat included python as well. 
- Originally I'd wanted to go in to CSci many years ago, and so it's been a lot of fun to get to check in via the boot camp, and get a glimpse of all that has gone on in other areas of finance during my career period. It seems like these days the technology is in some ways more accessible to a wider range of people besides those with formal academic preparation. To the extent that that's the case, I plan to continue exploring topics of interest to me, especially in terms of the 30+ books I bought for the boot camp. And to use what I've learned in work settings whenever possible!
- After starting new job which took all my focus, and also needing to take all measures possible to prevent covid transmission, my availability for the boot camp was greatly decreased. I did not download, install, or implement any of the blockchain/crypto technology, did not complete any relate exercises or homework, and so was not awarded the certificate.
- Career History -Computer includes Pascal use very long ago (Wumpus was fun, except for restricted access issues etc), Unix briefly during the very accelerated-time-days of the early internet, with protocol stacks and dear BBEdit and (very filtered) Slashdot and so much churning; a period working as an implementation consultant for Great Plains Dynamics back when installation took quite a while and was quite a thing (and answering a customers' question about *why* didn't it work last time, and would it *for sure* work this time? was not easy)(thank goodness for MacinTouch and the rest of the Mac community).. also using EDI and databases such as 4D and Access and FMP and lots of Mac based accounting systems. 
- Career History -Accounting has included full general ledger responsibilities such as reconciliations, journal entries, budgeting and budget reporting, financial reporting and audit/990 prep as well as the supporting day-to-day functionality, and related aspects such as accounting software optimization and implementation, database maintentance, payroll, benefits administration, human resources, sales tax compliance, etc.. 
- Career History - Writing: I've also always had a strong interest in the written word. I've been in editorial positions (along with accounting work), and am fascinated by the book indexing process. Also am a puzzle enthusiast. And just always like to write, with the slightest possible excuse, like now, this. 
- 👀 If I weren't happy in Accounting, I would be further exploring the FinTech community in some way that contributes to the collective well-being (ESG, etc). Financial Analysis interests me, am considering working on the SEI exam. Also since much of my career has been about migrating the best of legacy systems into the current paradigm, am considering learning R and Tableau in order to have as much flexibility as possible and help transitions from one to the other as applicable.  And everything else in the top 20 positions on the TIOBE list (she said earnestly)! Just kidding.
- What I like about accounting - it's a lot. All the details, the utility of it (by definition, is necessary for every entity), and the close relationship w/ program software. Recently I've had the opportunity to think about accounting from a different perspective, and now I appreciate it more. It's like a tapestry, in that each transaction is structured in the way that fits the entities involved (so 2 or more structures in place each time - one on each end); in each case, there may be 10 - 30 data elements involved per transaction. Then, that info is stored in the accounting software, and is acesssed in part or in whole, individually or collectively, depending on the context and info needs of the entity. Each transaction is summarized into multiple groups of similar transactions, by potentially some-all of those 5 - 30 data elements. It is included in reports in various ways, that meet the needs of the entity's leaders & managers. The transaction is structured in such a way as to comply with all relevant federal, state and local rules, laws and regulations, as well as GAAP and other regulation systems. Finally, both the software data and the paper records are retained for specific periods of time, depending on the type and context of that transaction. While a small set of transactions / reports need to be permanently maintained, most are able to be released/deleted after some time (again, for each participant of each transaction). And then transparency/confidentiality: All info is available to governing entities/ compliance bodies; as well as managers/owners/directors, and specific people per role etc. To everyone else, all info is generally kept confidential. It's an ongoing interlaced, intricate, complex system, which I really enjoy participating in.
-  💞️ Also, I have to say, I really appreciate good accounting software, and would be excited to join that sort of process as well. Some of my favorite experiences of the last twenty years include the awesome ✨MIP✨ (of Abila). Really loved how much detail was able to be integrated in to transactions, the error-prevention mechanisms, the review abilities, and possibly most of all the reporting capabilities. Other notable work tools have incuded PeopleSoft, Great Plains Dynamics, and Paylocity.
- Acknowledgements: Ada Lovelace, Grace Hopper, Katherine Johnson, Dorothy Vaughan, Mary Jackson and all the other West Area Computers, Jocelyn Bell, Mileva Marić, Cecilia Payne, the women code breakers of Bletchley Park, Joanna Hoffman, Susan Kare, Nona Gaprindashvili, and the "Code like a Girl" team. Also, Katie Stokes and all my other ancestors, and many more. And fellow-Minnesotan (tv-wise, anyway) Betty White, may her memory be a blessing.
- I won't ever work in a state or for a company based in a state that has an SB8-type law currently in place. I'd also like to never work in a state or for a company based in a state that ever has had an SB8-type law previously on the books. 
